Episode 	Challenge 	Type
12 	Jump off a one thousand-foot cliff into a shark-infested lake.Pull crates back to camp (winning team gets carts).Build a hot tub from materials found in the crates. 	Team
3 	Stay awake the longest in the "Awake-A-Thon" after running twenty-kilometers and eating a huge meal.
4 	A best-of-five dodgeball game.
5 	A three-on-three talent show contest.
6 	Go into the forest, stay out there overnight, then race back to the campgrounds in the morning.
7 	Face your worst fear, specific to each camper.
8 	Row a canoe to Boney Island, portage across the island, start a bonfire, and canoe back to camp.
9 	Hunt the other team dressed as deers with paintball guns, or if one is a deer, avoid being hit by them.
10 	Create a three-course meal for Chris to judge.
11 	Participate in a set of three-out-of-five trust exercises.
12 	Make it through Chef's life-threatening and disgusting boot-camp challenges.
13 	Sofa skydiving.Riding a moose while avoiding being tossed off it.Water-skiing on mud to collect up to five flags.
14 	Eat a nine-course meal of disgusting food made by Chef.Tiebreaker: drink shot glasses of blended cockroaches.
15 	Get through several rounds of torture, lasting at least ten seconds in each one. 	Individual
16 	Receive a clue to find a key hidden somewhere in the island to open a treasure chest containing a prize.
17 	Avoid getting sprayed by Chef's water gun in a game of hide and seek, or after being sprayed help Chef track other campers.
18 	Build a bike from scratch, race one of their fellow camper's bikes. If their bike qualifies, compete in a sudden-death challenge, where the "last one to cross the finish line" is automatically eliminated.
19 	Watch a horror movie and then avoid being captured by a "psycho killer."
20 	Catch the specific animal assigned by Chris and bring it back to the campground unharmed.
21 	Eat disgusting food with your hands behind your back while the person handcuffed to you feeds you.Return a fragment of Beth's cursed tiki idol to Boney Island.Assemble a totem pole with the wooden heads of the voted out campers in the order that they were eliminated. 	Pairs
23 	Find Chris and Chef after being washed away by a storm. 	Individual
24 	Find your way back to camp after being left in the wild with limited supplies. 	Pairs
25 	Survive a series of dares given by the eliminated campers until someone drops out. 	Individual
26 	Climb a pole and retrieve a flag, walk across a board on top of shark-infested waters while carrying an eagle's egg, and run a race to cross the finish line.
27 	Find a case containing $1,000,000 and bring it to the Dock of Shame before anyone else does.
Total Drama Action
Total Drama Action challenges Episode 	Challenge 	Movie genre 	Type
1 	Search through the movie lot to find the cast trailers while avoiding the giant monster.Find a key on a buffet table. 	Monster 	Individual
2 	Search for and retrieve alien eggs while avoiding being hunted down by an alien. 	Alien
3 	Set up a film set and perform a skit to make Chef show emotion. 	Drama 	Team
4 	Balance on a surf board while avoiding the objects being shot.Build a sand castle.Have a dance-off. 	Beach
5 	Land on a horse from a high diving board and cattle rope the other team. 	Western
7 	Select a person from the opposing team to be locked in a cage while you prepare gross food for them to eat.Select a team member to push a laundry cart with the rest of the team in it through an obstacle course and dig a hole to the trailers. 	Prison
8 	Answer questions about made up diseases to assemble and revive a "Franken-Chris" and cure a "fatal" outbreak of disease. 	Medical
9 	After choosing a "serial killer" for each team, participate in three challenges in which the killer's job is to frighten their opponents. The team whose screams are the loudest overall wins.Attempt to scare the losing team from the past challenge out of the Craft Services Tent. 	Horror
10 	Complete an obstacle course including earthquake-like vibrations, pits, hail-sized golf balls, lava (tomato soup), and objects thrown at you by Chef.Escape from a submarine while it is filling up with water. 	Disaster
11 	Jump from an airplane "three kilometers" off the ground.Arrange a collection of paint bombs which, when ignited, have to splatter in a creative and controlled way.Play a version of "capture the flag" using the "big trunk of mind-blowing secrets." 	War
13 	Rescue a teammate who is locked in a vault.Rob a bank.Build and race go-karts. 	Bank Heist
14 	Create fire by using rocks.Battle a member of the opposite team using bones over a pit or tar. 	Prehistoric
15 	Conditioning.Boxing.Badminton.Ball pit wrestling.Slam Dunk competition.Cheerleading contest. 	Sports
16 	Retrieve a heavily-guarded package.Escape an "exploding" building.Defuse a stinkbomb. 	Spy 	Individual
17 	Make a super hero costume with a name and superpower.Race through a superhero obstacle course that consists of rescuing a sack of potatoes in a dress, walking across a power line without being hit by projectiles. 	Superhero
19 	Put on a glass "slipper" (actually, a combat boot) to be dubbed a princess (girls only may be princesses).Cross a bridge that is guarded by an "ogre" (played by Chef Hatchet) while blindfolded.Slay a "dragon" (the animatronic monster from "Monster Cash" poorly adorned with dragon physical properties) and rescue the princess from the "ivory tower" (actually, a radio antenna disguised as a castle tower). 	Fairy tale
20 	Collect a set of prints and DNA from a contestant and figure out who "killed" the host. 	Mystery
21 	Play an electric guitar.Walk the red carpet while avoiding the photographer props.Trash a hotel room. 	Rock & roll
22 	The trainer trains a fighter in a unique fighting style and uses a remote control to make the fighters fight the way they want them to.Climb up a hill carrying a glass of water to a "kung-fu master" to collect a bonsai tree from the top to bring back down to the bottom of the hill. 	Kung fu 	PairsIndividual
23 	Spend the rest of the night in a zero-gravity space ship-themed roller coaster.Survive a ride on the "Vomit Comet" the longest. 	Space 	Individual
24 	Pick an animal and train it to be like you.Find your way back to the lot through the forest. 	Animal buddy
25 	Clean up a bathroom stall, climb with your flag to the top of a greasy pole, launch yourself out of a cannon to the movie lot.Go through a treasure hunt through all of the season's challenges (answer a question for each of the eliminated contestants or re-do the worst TDA challenges if unable to correctly answer the questions), and finish before your opponent. 	Pirate, misc.
26 	Contort your body to fit the shape of a hole in a wall.Answer questions given by the other contestants for them to decide who the winner would be. 	N/A
Total Drama World Tour
Total Drama World Tour challenges Episode 	Challenge 	Location 	Type
1 	Go either under or over a pyramid to reach the finish line to form the teams. 	Giza, EgyptNile River, Egypt 	Individual
2 	Travel through the desert with your item and then weave a boat out of river reeds to cross the Nile river and reach the finish line while keeping your item. 	Team
3 	Team up with a panda bear or a teammate in a game of giant human pinball and win the most points.Make the best commercial advertising Chef Hatchet's candy that will be judged by Chef. 	Tokyo, Japan
4 	Cross a river by jumping onto ice floes to reach the dogsled first (therefore, having to pull it), drive to all the check points to pick up teammates, and then cross the finish line with them all. 	Yukon, Canada
5 	Climb up the Statue of Liberty, retrieve your team's carriage.Get your team down a thirty story fireman's pole, boat race across water and sewers to Turtle Lake.Retrieve an apple from the lake using no hands, and race the apple in the carriage (holding also one team member) to Central Park. 	New York City, United States
7 	Put meat into a grinder to make a huge sausage to slide down a mountain.Slap dance with another person from a different team and try to knock them off of the platform. 	German Alps, Germany
8 	Race through the Amazon and follow an ancient trail to Machu Picchu in order to find a hidden treasure. 	The Amazon, Peru
9 	Race through the Louvre and gather pieces of famous statues; then, be the first to reassemble them.For the elimination, both players select a model from another team, design an outfit and have a walk off. 	Paris, France
10 	Swim to your boat, then row to the shore of Newfoundland."Screeching in" relay: Relay of drinking apple cider vinegar, deciphering through Jerd McLean's thick accent, and kissing a cod. 	Newfoundland, Canada
11 	Cliff dive for "pirate treasure."Bobsled race around a rickety rack. 	Montego Bay, Jamaica
13 	Find clues in various places in order to capture Jack the Ripper, whilst avoiding being captured. 	London, England
14 	Participate in mock Olympic events, such as: a Spartan Scavenger Hunt, a Wrestling Match, and a hurdles race.For the tiebreaker, two players used wings made of wax and feathers to fly up and grab a gold medal. 	Athens, Greece
15 	Search the Black Box Warehouse in Area 51 for a working alien artifact; then, return to Area 52 and present the intact alien artifact to Chris. 	Area 51 & 52, United States
16 	Ride an emu to Hanging Rock, then bungee jump off the edge to grab a sheep with your team's symbol tattooed on it and shear it.For the tiebreaker, feed a starving baby koala eucalyptus leaves without using their hands. 	The Outback, Australia
17 	Build a boat and sail it to the other side of the lake to get a flag. First team to get the flag or sink the other team's ship wins. 	Gothenburg, Sweden
18 	Compete in a board game and complete mini challenges based on one of the remaining seven contestants, or on one of the past five locations visited. 	N/A 	Individual
19 	Use a slot machine to determine your husband. Guide your bride through an obstacle course to their gown; then, carry them across Niagara Falls on a tightrope, and answer trivia questions about Canada. 	Niagara Falls, Canada 	Pairs
20 	Race across the Great Wall of China.Eat as much authentic Chinese food as possible. 	Huairou, China 	Individual
21 	Collect plums without getting hit by a soccer ball kicked by other contestants.Break a gourd with the plums using a cricket bat.Capture Ezekiel using tranquilizer balls. 	Serengeti, Tanzania
22 	Search the stone heads of former contestants for three eggs that are the same color as your headdress.Traverse through a cave to the highest point of the island.Return the eggs to a condor's nest. 	Easter Island, Rapa Nui
23 	Create a dinosaur out of various materials in the area.Dig up an oil barrel and be the first to arrive at the Total Drama Jumbo Jet with it. 	Drumheller, Alberta, Canada
24 	Surf down a mountain and put a lei on the appropriate spirit animal. 	Kiluaea, Hawaii, United States
25 	Use any method of transportation to get to Tijuana Beach; then, take a speedboat to Hawaii and cross the finish line to make it to the final two. 	Across Canada and the USA
26 	Build a dummy made out of driftwood and pineapples to throw into the volcano. 	Kiluaea, Hawaii, United States
Total Drama: Revenge of the Island
Total Drama: Revenge of the Island challenges Episode 	Challenge 	Type
1 	Race through the forest to the finish line to form the teams. Cut down your team's totem pole from a tree and race it down a mountain to the cabins before the bomb attached to them explodes in seven minutes. 	Team
2 	Admit to an embarrassing fact read about you to score one point for your team.Compete in a baton-passing relay race (using the team mascots as batons) on an obstacle course suspended over a pit of mud.
3 	Use many materials to get up a rocky mountain, while being attacked by a mutant beetle.Play a game of Capture the Flag while surviving the icy elements.
4 	Go on a scavenger hunt in the forest, the cemetery, and a dark cave; reach the finish line with more surviving members than the other team.
5 	Obtain water skis underwater; set off more mines than the other team using mutant seagull shooters.
6 	Dress up a mutated animal and send it down the runway.Rescue Lindsay from Boney Island.
7 	Search for the Gilded Chris Award in an old mine.
8 	Reach the shore first.Save Gwen and Sam from a buried chest.
9 	Find a key hidden in Chef's kitchen to a go-kart. Be the first to spray-paint a mark on all three monuments on the island. 	Individual
10 	Build a flying machine.Catch or stop Heather and retrieve the million-dollar case from the blimp.
11 	Cook a dish using ingredients from around the island and have the dish judged by DJ.Eat your own dish first; then, race to the flagpole without getting hit by Chef.
12 	Race through the forest and retrieve a flower from Larry. Race back to the finish line with the flower.
13 	Make a suit of armor out of various materials from a junk pile, duel your opponent, and pin them to the ground for three seconds.
Total Drama All-Stars
Total Drama All-Stars challenges Episode 	Challenge 	Based on 	Type
1 	Dive off the cliff to find a key in the lake and use a stroller to carry your teammate to the spa and use the key found to open it. 	"Not So Happy Campers—Part 2""Broadway, Baby!" 	Team
2 	Dig up 3D puzzle pieces at the beach to assemble an international landmark. 	"Can't Help Falling in Louvre"
3 	Collect unusual paintball weaponry in the forest to pick off members of the opposite team. 	"Paintball Deer Hunter""Full Metal Drama"
4 	Eat a giant stack of pancakes and complete an obstacle course without vomiting. 	"Truth or Laser Shark"
5 	Get your team to the other side of the forest during a rare Blue Harvest Moon. 	"The Treasure Island of Dr. McLean"
6 	Find six eggs from the mutated creatures in The Fun Zone of Boney Island. 	"Rapa Phooey!"
7 	Fight in a boxing match with your worst fear. 	"Phobia Factor""No Pain, No Game"
8 	Race one lap around the island in a boat. 	N/A 	Individual
9 	Find and rescue Chris from certain doom.
10 	Race through a deadly obstacle course. 	"Basic Straining"
11 	Race to make a sundae for two starving interns by getting the ingredients around the island.Eat their own sundae. 	N/A
12 	Search for various items throughout the island and bring them back to Chris.
13 	Cross the Moats of Doom, storm the castle, and get past the "Mad King" and extract the sword from the stone.
Total Drama: Pahkitew Island
Total Drama: Pahkitew Island challenges Episode 	Challenge 	Type
1 	Avoid Chef's projectiles and gather materials to build shelter that can survive a moose stampede. 	Team
2 	A relay race using greased pigs as batons to be passed through an obstacle course.
3 	Avoid getting hit by balloons stocked with dangerous items thrown by the other team.
4 	Tell a deep truth or complete a difficult challenge to avoid your entire team being electrocuted.
5 	Make three X's out of dueling sticks which you have to retrieve from the other team's side of the dock.
6 	Retrieve a coin from a monkey and insert it into a vending machine before the other team.
7 	Traverse through an underground cavern and cross the finish before the other team.
8 	Cross three "zones" quietly to avoid various obstacles while carrying real live babies through the first two zones.
9 	Drink an entire cup of Juggy Chunks.Avoid getting captured by Sugar in a game of hide-and-seek. 	Individual
10 	Stop Scarlett from destroying the island and shut down the self-destruct system in the control room.
11 	Climb to the top of Mt. "Everfast" and grab the flag on top of the mountain.
12 	Sky's 100 m hurdle race.Shawn's "no floor touching" race.Sugar's talent contest.
13 	Race around the island at first aided by a helper. Reach the finish line while avoiding the changing landscapes controlled by the helpers turned "hinderers."
Total Drama Island (2023)
Total Drama Island (2023) challenges Episode 	Challenge 	Type
1 	Two contestants guide two blindfolded teammates through an obstacle course to grab a bucket of fish for the other teammates to haul up. 	Team
2 	Sink the other team's pirate ship using cabbage cannons.
3 	Race to-and-fro an obstacle course to acquire the password necessary to save their teammate from drowning.
4 	Capture the skull from the other team's fort and give it to Chris.
5 	After eating beans for breakfast, get their entire team at the other side of the island without getting attacked by a group of raptors.
6 	Slingshot their teammates farther than the other team and get the most points.
7 	Bring Chris a cassowary egg. 	Individual
8 	Eat a series of disgusting meals.
9 	Race through a dangerous river, geyser field, and beehive mountain to ring a golden bell.
10 	Stay on poles longer than the other contestants.
11 	Take selfies with dangerous animals to earn the most points.
12 	Go through a deadly cave and bring as many coins back to Chris as possible.
13 	Race across a river of lava.Roll in a ball to the finish line after drinking goat's milk.
Total Drama Island (2024)
Total Drama Island (2024) challenges Episode 	Challenge 	Type
1 	Get across the field in a red-light green-light style game, while trying to avoid getting caught by Axe Hatchet. 	Team
2 	Slip through a slide in order to get into the basketball hoop.
3 	Travel across the island, while being covered in sap.
4 	Cross a glass bridge while answering would you rather questions about other contestants.
5 	Navigate an obstacle course or maze, in an iceberg, to find three keys.
6 	Carry your canoe to the beach and joust your partner/opponent. 	Pairs
7 	Bake a cake with your team to be judged by Chris, Chef, and Owen.
8 	Climb Pinball Mountain with large Chris Coins and get tossed around in a human pinball game. 	Individual
9 	Find the biggest item you can find and break it apart in order to fit it into a small slot.
10 	Try to remember an eliminated contestant's spot on a large board.
11 	Avoid getting caught by five attack dogs.
12 	Hook other contestants into a cage with their worst fears.
13 	Pull a carriage with your team in it.Cross a tightrope while avoiding getting shot with a cannon.Get to the finish line in a flying squirrel suit. 